## 2020-05-21 20:00 Europe/Madrid

### Attendees

* Jordan Harband
* Daniel Ehrenberg
* Kristen Hewell Garrett (KHG)
* Nicole Sullivan
* Minko Gechev
* Robin Ricard (RRD)
* Stephen Hicks
* Justin Fagnani (JF)
* Rick Button (RBU) 
* Fred Kleuver (FK)
* Rob Eisenberg      * 
* Minko Gechev (MG)
* John-David Dalton (JDD)
* Justin Ridgewell (JRL)

### Agenda and notes

## June TC39 topics

* Some things that will likely be on the agenda for the June 2020 TC39 meeting:
    * [Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal), stage 2 update: hoping for Stage 3 in a few months, reviews from trying out the polyfill and/or reading the docs are very welcome
      * SH: Closure Library looking to evaluate Temporal as a replacement for Closure's crufty goog.Date (or other existing libraries) over the next 2-3 months, will come back with feedback.

    * [Records and Tuples](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-record-tuple), stage 1 update: Considering Stage 2 in July, including [deep path updates](https://github.com/rickbutton/proposal-deep-path-properties-for-record), but leaving[ boxed object references ](https://github.com/rricard/proposal-boxing-objects/)separate/later if at all. Thoughts?,

    * [Boxing objects into primitive types proposal](https://github.com/rricard/proposal-boxing-objects) is a new proposal aimed at exploring the solution space to put objects into Record & Tuple. It is effectively replacing RefCollection

      * RRD: this is replacing refcollection

      * JF: what about the vdom/templating use  case?

      * RRD: different use case, you can do userland for now but we could think of refcell-like (rust refcell) proposal later

      * JRL: Without being able to box primitives, it makes the templating usecase a bit harder. We'd have to store the simple objects that we store in the box permanently, (eg, first hole maps to `objs[0]`) for all templates. That makes the array permanent memory leak, we can never remove objs from it since any future template could use the same `obj[0]`, `obj[10000000000]`

      * DE: it’s a complete different proposal anyway

      * JF: I think the fact that we can build it in userland means it would be ok

      * DE: The thing is for the templating it may be good to have <missed> you have the ability to to map from the holes to what they fill in.

      * JHD: Box: could hold any kind of values - added to issue #3 in the repo

      * RRD: After we presented RefCollection and how that went I think we want to make sure this is good, but it could be separated and maybe we should layer it later on.

      * JF: Yeah I think it’s fine if we have confirmed that they can be properly layered, it shouldn’t hold back Records and Tuples.

    * [Intl.DurationFormat](http://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format) for Stage 2: new formatter for durations of dates and times

      * SH: This looks roughly like what we were trying to do for Intl, wanted a standard solution, so looks good

      * MG: Lots of folks bring moment.js for this which brings many KBs of JavaScript to the browser.

    * [Operator overloading](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-operator-overloading): Should we keep going in this direction? How should this relate to 
    * [Realms](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-realms), Stage 2 update: Use cases still welcome. E.g., Are there non-security use cases on the Web?

      * DE: New global object, can eval in it, there are some ideas of realms that could virt different kind of implementation of host behavior
      
      * CG: create a new realm, is it able to inherit from creation place

      * DE: not completely isolated, you can add membranes to add isolation. You still have to pass in a ref to something, you can add an argument. Other thing is how to hook into html

      * CG: useful for us is reactivity system based on a vector clock per process making it difficult to have multiple apps  serving multiple requests. That way you don’t need to spin multiple. So then we need to do like ssr and share some object

      * DE: you can always share some state, realms always create global objects for  you, they don’t inherit
      
      * CG: this is good, we just need a global obj isolated and then share state. We keep that counter that is created by the app. The counter is effectively global, all pieces of state share it (blog post explaining how the system works: [https://www.pzuraq.com/how-autotracking-works/](https://www.pzuraq.com/how-autotracking-works/)). This can cause problems if you have two apps running (e.g. in SSR) that are both running and then dirtying state, causing an infinite loop where the system never stops flushing. If each independent render/app could isolate the counter, that would prevent this issue, without needing to fork. Note: The counter is global for ergonomic reasons - threading a counter through the system would be difficult and burdensome for users of the reactive model.

      * DE: ok if in the same thread?

      * CG: It depends, the goal is to be more performant than v8 isolates or separate node processes, so we would need to benchmark and look at it. I’m not 100% sure. When I first heard of that I knew it was a problem we were facing.

      * DE: If I could convince you to file an issue that would be helpful.

      * JF: WE use the vm module to spin up a new VM context for every session. One of the problems is that we would love to have shared state / cache but our cache is keyed off of object identity, a template literal string identity. Realms wouldn’t help us share a cache, because it would provide us a different identity per realm.

      * DE: you could share a same func across diff realms but here you would have a different copy of a module

      * JHD: I would be surprised if the realms proposal did not provide a way to hook into the template literal cache.

      * DE: You will be surprised, because it doesn’t give you hooks into anything. Hooks have been moved to compartments proposal

      * JHD: The compartment proposal would give you this ability. Is that right?

      * DE: maybe it supports that but I wouldn’t know how it would do that

    * [Module attributes](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-module-attributes) for Stage 2: Adds JSON modules, imported with `with type: "json"`.
    * [Pipeline operator](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pipeline-operator) Stage 1 update: We want to get discussion rolling again; a few TC39 members (incl Dan) want to go forward with something like F#, though this encourages libraries to export functions that take a single argument

      * DE: not sure it’ll be in agenda next meeting but some of us are looking at it Leaning towards f#-style personally but has consequences on libraries. Rxjs is excited - but what do you think?
      
      * SH: awkward to design against those use cases - you never know how to structure the api

      * DE: other approach is hack-like, do you prefer it?

      * SH: personally no

      * DE: do you not like pipeline?

      * SH: don’t see the need

      * CG: In Ember, we have functional helpers that help with not having a placeholder, you end up having a lot of awkward designs. We’ve investigated adding closures to our templates

      * DE: f# style permiits closures, would that mitigate it?

      * CG: I think it would

      * JF: would allow for forwarding stuff in the next call, but closures do that (....)

      * SH: Where would destructuring come in?
      
      * JF: In the closure.

    * [#name in obj](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-private-fields-in-in) for Stage 2: Brand checking based on private names

      * JHD: (presents explainer for private field brand checks) adding a private field and checking it you might not reveal you are using a private field so you need to basically use a try/catch, this proposal adds an in keyword. Downsides is that removes the #foo for this.#foo possible shorthand. Yehuda is fine not keeping shorthand. I tried to come up with a try statement as alternative but wasn’t convincing. In keyword  is preferred

      * JF: If it’s an expression, what is the value of the expression?

      * DE: Background on shorthand, #foo would be like this.#foo, we removed it because most people who looked at it had incorrect intuition about it. In this proposal #foo is not an expression.

      * JHD: There is not a reified private field. If a future proposal added reified private symbols it would work. If it was opened up to a "private symbol" or “private field token” it would work. If you tried #brand or #foo it would be a syntax error without this proposal.

      * JF: I’m wondering about code that assumes that the left hand side is an expression and can move it.

      * JHD: you mean like transforms: they would trip over the shorthand anyway

      * JDD: One nit, on the example for the "in", you are usign the hash shorthand, I would make it the longer form

      * JHD: This isn’t meant to be shorthand. The left hand side is the key, the long form includes the object. There is no long form.

      * DE: Sorry for confusing things, but the idea was that you could use this by itself as an expression that would be a substitiute for this.#brand.

      * JHD: It is not a thing that exists, but it did at one time. If people want that, my proposal would prevent that from happening. I’m happy to explain why the shorthand won’t make it.

      * JDD: I’m fine with it being gone.

      * SH: Closure compiler has conventions around this.

      * JHD: Whether that convention is reasonable is discussable. It’s already this.#brand, there is no brakcet access for it. I don’t think this proposal changes the landscape.

      * SH: no it doesn’t just interesting comment

      * JHD: I’m getting the general sense that people are ok with it?

      * RB: would remove my usages of weakmap

      * DE: cool and interesting to hear

    * [Function implementation hiding](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-function-implementation-hiding) for stage 3, requesting pragma wording feedback

      * JHD: bikeshed about contents of the pragma. You can do hide source as a pragma removes it  from tostring and stack trace. Concern is directive hide source  ….. Lost again … hide source and stack frames wouldn’t work

      * MG: In Angular we use zonejs and we use chrome devtools and it generates a lot of stacktraces and we would want to hide some stackframes

      * RB: I thought it was about hiding implementation, but now I understand it about cleaning stactraces?

      * MF: it includes use cases about library code that you want to hide, same way as doing blackboxing in devtools

      * RB: is intent to allow you to disable it? I don’t want to modify the lib to show stacktrace

      * MF: yea you can show them again, goal is not to hurt development process, just to prevent the poor interaction between adjacent code

      * DE: (joking) don’t you think it will make it faster?

      * JHD: same as minification: makes things faster but like sourcemaps, you can always have it in devtools

      * SH: first inttuition cool for frameworks to hisd estuff. But this is an abuse

      * MF: committe feedback: split the proposal

      * SH: bikeshedding call it omitStackframe

      * RE: agree, right now too ambiguous

      * JF: userland devtools to consider, could have a wayu to still get orig stackframes with in-browser devtools

      * MF: adjacent code should not be able to see something private so it could hurt security

      * JF: yea separation could help security vs devtools

      * RB: this would break reporting to backends, maybe we need a specific hook into the engine

      * JF: same thing at google, that error reporting to server would be broken

      * RB: less of a problem for BLoomberg, we have native access to v8, just a bit of weirdness added

      * MF: good feedback, intend to just move with hide source directive for now

      * DE: bikesheddy concern: do people like string pragmas?

      * JDD: I love em’

      * JF: (half-joking) decorator would be cool

      * DE: we don’t have it yet

      * RB: special pragma syntax? Bad to fork with use strict. But not a fan

      * RRD: progressive proposal: pragma then decorator?

      * DE: doesn’t make sense

      * RB: not intended for everyone, library authors can accept that.

      * DE: what would you use it for? Whole codebase?

      * RB: you could, I could see a babel transform adding it on top of each file

      * JHD: already done with use strict

      * RB: any discussion about storing source?

      * DE: v8 needs to recompile the source, but now they can compress it a bit

* Summary/update from the biweekly Decorator calls
    * We're surveying decorator use cases. Please add yours here, whether novel or analogous to others' use of decorators [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QP0hfXkkkAXTktGrI7qrt-RUqKp2KtsVKuPo4yuoZZI/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QP0hfXkkkAXTktGrI7qrt-RUqKp2KtsVKuPo4yuoZZI/edit#gid=0) 

      * CG: Started the decorators bi-weekly. Debating between application static and definition static. Trying to define what needs what capability, went to audit the ecosystem to see what real use cases actually look like. If we know what decorators are used for so we can decide: app static is constraints.  Gonna add a column for authors to say if they are still using those decorator so we can avoid considering all in design process

      * DE: We are having these calls every two weeks. They are open to all of you, let us know if you want an invite. Any thoughts about decorators?

 
