November 21, 2019, 20:00 Europe/Madrid

Attendees:
* Daniel Ehrenberg
* Chris Joel
* Rick Button
* John-David Dalton
* Kristen Hewell Garrett
* Ian Sutherland
* Brian Kardell
* Fred Kleuver
* Robin Ricard
* Ian Sutherland
* Ujjwal Sharma
* Justin Ridgewell
* Justin Fagnani
* Russell Bicknell
* Ben Coe
* Shu-yu Guo
* Michel Westrate (only second half)

Agenda and notes:

* Incomplete summary of October 2019 TC39 meeting ([full notes](https://github.com/tc39/notes/tree/master/meetings/2019-10))
    * Immutable datatype proposals
        * [Records and Tuples ](https://button.dev/talks/records-and-tuples-tc39-october-2019.pdf)[https://github.com/tc39/proposal-record-tuple](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-record-tuple) stage 1 -- deeply immutable Objects and Arrays
        * [Read only collections](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-readonly-collections) stage 1 -- shallowly immutable Maps and Sets
    * Standard library proposals
        * [Promise.prototype.any](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mHpRSi1xFJEwuLwN31kRLPBQIpd27EdlAbG4yNakbD0/edit) stage 3
        * [String.prototype.replaceAll](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OGmV6uVTOEeSYO1nMeLjzflkbRJZ4p9QXlGV8IvDMmU/edit) stage 3
        * [Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal) (Stage 2) API changes in progress, new polyfill release coming soon
        * [UUID](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-uuid) stage 1
    * In the background, some discussion about class fields/private methods, but no changes proposed; still at Stage 3 with implementations in progress
* Some agenda items for December 2019 ([full agenda](https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/master/2019/12.md))
    * [Optional chaining](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-optional-chaining/) and [nullish coalescing](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-nullish-coalescing/) for Stage 4!!
    * [Function implementation hiding](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-function-implementation-hiding) for Stage 3
    * Update on the Stage 2 [Realm proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-realms) -- API for creating a new global object
    * [Module attributes](https://github.com/littledan/proposal-module-attributes/) for Stage 1 -- to support non-JS modules, 
        * JF: CSS modules, JSON modules and HTML modules and security concerns of interpreting the module-type using the mimetype.
        * DE: we cannot change the default *or* convince browser vendors to overlook security concerns.
        * JRL: How are we going to get importers to add the `with type: json`. Imagine emulating this in a local env, I would serve a JS file with a default export that is some JSON. They wouldn't need a inline type:json there. How do we get the importer to add it?
        * SYG: My high level question to other framework authors: You have expressed your own opinions that this information should be in-band, but I want to ask others because there is another option that this could be out of band too…
        * DE: Out of band would be something like ImportMaps - it could be a script or a link that would map your extra module ttypes.  Whatever you did, you'd have to do that twice.
        * JF: With all of the ways we do modules in npm and all, I'm just not sure how you manage that
        * DE: Do others have thoughts?
        * RB: I don't see the purpose of having an out of band way of doing this
        * CG: It seems like the out of band one could be generated easier
        * JF: How, without the inband information to generate it from
        * ??: from file extension, most likely. I think there's been discussions about this.
        * JF: This is solving a different thing from ImportMaps
        * JM: From a frameworks perspective, adding a sigil kind of standardizes the pattern that is in use today (webpack loaders)
        * FK: is there a reason not support both, where inband could override out of band maybe
        * JF: But why though
        * FK: It seems like again how things like webpack work, where you can associate a type with a loader by default, and then you do want to do something special you can override it - I'm not entirely sure of all of the situations where you need to - but I can certainly see scenarios
        * JDD: I can say that in my experiencing having one or the other leaves use cases on the floor, we saw this happen with modules, for example.  I am pro having both, I am fine solving one first.
        * JF: I worry about who has the onus or the responsibility to do it
        * DE: The counter has been made that only the module author has the information to say what kind it is.  
        * ??: This is optional, right?
        * DE: If you want to use a non-js type, you need to use this feature.
        * [discussion about dependencies and implications]
        * JF: There is a slight relationship here with SRI, I can see the argument for that being out of band because it becomes very difficult to put this in band and keep it up to date. 
        * SYG: I have heard some preference from google chrome folks that they want signature based SRI
        * DE: for framework authors then, does this sort of thing make sense - either one? Does it fit into build steps that you have? 
        * CG: I think we could generate it from our build steps - but I think we would do SRI if we could too.
        * JM: In a bundler scenario where you are trying to generate an out of band thing, we'd need to have some way for the bundler to be able to be aware and stitch into the import map, which we don't have today
        * FK: The combination seems to allow keeping the bundler less complex
        * JM: I think the in-band solution solves very real pain points today.  Webpack has 2 modes of config, and there's sort of a general consensus that adding invented stuff into a specifier, it's bad.  Most of the "css modules" that people are using today uses something like filepaths to identify that this is supposed to be CSS. If it were in band, there is a really really nice extension route if you wanted to build in some new, logical place to dump webpack semantics that aren't in the specifier
        * DE: There was discussion about embedding it in the specifier as a string, I had concerns like you were just saying
        * JF:  I think this data allows a lot - patterns that work appropriately on either side
        * JM: Right, but I think what Dan was saying is that you could know specifically that it was about the type - I dont understand that type.
        * DE: These would be part of the host environment, and build tools or node are kind of a different host environment and they might understand different things. The JS spec probably won't say much there.  Things like SRI won't be in JS itself, probably
        * JM: If it were opaque string based - like, you wanted to say it is CSS and it is CSS Modules, and you are guessing, things are easily broken.  I wonder if making the key discernably identifiable and compound would be good.  +metadata would give you a place to put extra stuff for all of these.
        * DE: Any of these that aren't understood would be ignored?  Do we agree that a single string is probably less good.
        * JM: Yes.
        * DE: It's been proposed for the web too, I think I hear that this is not a good path to go down
        * JM: This seems like a syntactically more appropriate way, it gives us a ..?
        * DE:  I hear people saying inline and both, does anyone think out of band is just better and we should work on that.
        * JH: I think yes, because it is an implementation detail you shouldn't be required to know. It's a huge tax when all you are saying is that you want an abstract module record - the whole design of the module system was so that you didn't have to know this really.
        * JF: Aren't these intimately related?  A CSS module has a specific contract.
        * JH: Now what you are talking about is validating the shape of the import/export - and that isn't what I hear.  We are talking about like 4 or 5 module types, but the module system was designed for like 1000.  
        * DE: How is is different wrt how scalable it is
        * JH: They are both Taxes, but this is really only relevant because of the Web, other environment can just ignore all this.
        * JF: In deno you can import from a URL, I don't think that is true
        * JH: ImportMaps were designed by saying you have to put something in a readme or something and then someone needs to carry that through.  This means you can't drop it in the browser, you have to add this thing.  That sucks, but it's one thing and we should do the same thing.  These usability characteristics were specifically chosen for ImportMaps, they mean you can't just drop things in - already, so suggesting that you can just drop these in if we do it a certain way, it's already not true.
        * DE: This is really interesting, but can we move on to decorators?
    * [Standard Library Task Group proposal](https://github.com/syg/standard-library-task-group)
* Other proposals to discuss
    * Decorators status: Design changes needed in static decorators proposal (Shu-yu Guo to explain)
        * SYG: issues around static decorators being harder to teach / more concepts to integrate in the engines
        * DE: more perf friendly though - need to gather uses from frameworks
        * JF: static is better for typesystems because it’s easier to infer
        * SYG: TS team doesn’t like that proposal
        * JF: they are convincible
        * ?: finite set of primitives that could map to the usecases
        * DE: 4 primitives - challenge is choosing the primitives - make compositions the way to extend - Need help thinking this through
        * DE: Receiving a descriptor is almost impossible to statically analyze
        * SYG: Not just descriptors (for classes you have other stuff)
        * DE: that was too dynamic
        * FK: give them dynamic + statically analyzable - frameworks choose to take perf hit
        * ?: you don’t need to mutate stuff necessarily
        * MW: Decorators are mostly about property mutators. We might have been focusing to much on property descriptors as a means to an end. To goal is not to be able to change property descriptors in 90% of the cases, the goal is to trap reads and writes. Just like how Proxies can do that already, the only limitation with proxies is that they don’t trap interactions that happen (directly), which is why we still need decorators. But if decorators would just be able to trap member reads and writes, that’d probably enough already. I’ll try to cook something up in the repository to elaborate on that. (Update: wrote down the idea here: [https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues/299](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues/299))
        * JF: most important thing a decorator does: it allows you to supply a getter and setter.
    * (Please add more items to discuss to this list!)
* Meta
    * Still looking for co-organizers of this meeting
